FAQ Answer on Software Heritage Foundation IDs (#33)
git-bom/site: content/resources/faq.md

We don't think this will be a problem because GitBOM does not include any metadata, such as provenance, timestamp, and licence -- the domain of [SBOM](/glossary/sbom)s.

While duplicate hashes of empty files and regularly copied files (such as LICENSE files) are guaranteed to occur, this does not affect the security properties of GitBOM.

> ## Why not use [Software Heritage Foundation](https://www.softwareheritage.org/) identifiers?

Reviewer: The explanation below doesn't answer the question asked. IMO either the question should be changed or the answer should be more specific.

Author: I took your feedback below :)  Many thanks :)

> ## Why not use [Software Heritage Foundation](https://www.softwareheritage.org/) identifiers?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do [Software Heritage Foundation](https://www.softwareheritage.org/) identifiers relate to GitBOM Identifiers?
```

> [Software Heritage Foundation Identifiers](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#persistent-identifiers) uses [git object ids](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#git-compatibility):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Software Heritage Foundation Identifiers](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#persistent-identifiers) use [git object ids](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#git-compatibility) as part of their [core identifiers](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#core-identifiers):
```

> SWHIDs for contents, directories, revisions, and releases are, at present, compatible with the Git way of computing identifiers for its objects. The <object_id> part of a SWHID for a content object is the Git blob identifier of any file with the same content; for a revision it is the Git commit identifier for the same revision, etc.

> GitBOM uses git object ids for [artifact ids](/glossary/artifact/#artifact-identifers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitBOM uses git object ids as the entire [artifact id](/glossary/artifact/#artifact-identifers).

Whereas SWHIDs' core identifier includes additional metadata (see [SWHID Syntax](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#syntax)):
```<identifier_core> ::= "swh" ":" <scheme_version> ":" <object_type> ":" <object_id> ;``` 
...the git object id is the object's identifier in a [GitBOM document](https://gitbom.dev/glossary/gitbom/#gitbom-document):
```<gitbom_identifier> ::= <git object id>```
The scheme in which SWHIDs are used is also different from the scheme in which GitBOM identifiers are used in a [GitBOM document](https://gitbom.dev/glossary/gitbom/#gitbom-document). 

```

> SWHIDs for contents, directories, revisions, and releases are, at present, compatible with the Git way of computing identifiers for its objects. The <object_id> part of a SWHID for a content object is the Git blob identifier of any file with the same content; for a revision it is the Git commit identifier for the same revision, etc.

GitBOM uses git object ids as the entire [artifact id](/glossary/artifact/#artifact-identifers).

Whereas SWHIDs' core identifier includes additional metadata (see [SWHID Syntax](https://docs.softwareheritage.org/devel/swh-model/persistent-identifiers.html#syntax)):
```<identifier_core> ::= "swh" ":" <scheme_version> ":" <object_type> ":" <object_id> ;``` 
...the git object id is the object's identifier in a [GitBOM document](https://gitbom.dev/glossary/gitbom/#gitbom-document):

> ```<gitbom_identifier> ::= <git object id>```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```<gitbom_identifier> ::= <git object id>```.

```
